# 12/10/2018
+ JWT 
+ Authorization vs Authentication
+ Local Storage 
+ Session Storage 
+ Cookie
+ TCP

## JWT 
Scenarios where JSON web tokens would be useful

### Authorization
Once the user is logged in , each subsequent request will include the JSON web token, allowing the user to access routes, services and resources 
That are permitted with that token.
Single sign on is a feature that widely use JWT, because of its small overhead  and its ability to be easily used across different domains.

### Information Exchange 
JSON web tokens are a good way of securely transmitting information 
Between two parties . Because JWTS can be signed for example using private/public key pairs you can be sure the sender are who they say they are. Additionally as, the signature is calculated using the header and the payload , you can also verify that the content has not been tampered with. 

### What is the JSON web token structure?

In its compact form , JSON web tokens consists of three parts separated by (.) dots. 

* Header 
* Payload 
* Signature

Therefore the JWT usually looks like the following 

```text
xxxxx.yyyy.zzzzz
```

### Header 
The header typically consists of two parts the type of token which is JWT and the hashing algorithm being used such as HMAC SHA256 or RSA 

For example :

``` json 
{
“alg”:”HS256”,
“typ”:”JWT”
}
```

This JSON is Base64Url encoded to form the first part of the JWT 

### Payload 

The second part of the token is the payload  which contains the claims . 
Claims are statements about an entity (typically the user) and additional data . There are three types of claims registered, public and private claims. 

* Registered Claims

These are a set of predefined claims  which are not mandatory but recommended , to provide a set of useful , interoperable claims . 
Some of them are : iss(issuer),exp(expiration time), sub(subject), aud(audience) , and others.

* Public Claims 
These can be defined at will of those using JWTs. But to avoid collisions 
They should be defined in the IANA JSON web token registry or be defined 
As a URI. That contains a collision resistant namespace. 

* Private Claims 
These are custom claims created to share information between parties that agree on using them and are neither registered nor public claims 

An example payload could be:

``` json
{
"sub":"1234567890",
"name":"John Doe",
"admin":true
}
```

The payload is then base64Url encoded to form the second part of the JSON web token.

Do note that for signed tokens this information, though protected against tampering, is readable by anyone. Do not put secret information in the payload or header elements of a JWT unless it is encrypted.

### Signature 

To create a signature you have to take the encoded header, the encoded payload , a secret , the algorithm specified in the header, and sign that .

For example if you want to use the HMAC SHA256 algorithm, the signature 
Will be created in the following way : 

```text
HMACSHA256(
base64UrlEncode(header) + "." +
base64UrlEncode(payload),
secret
)
```

The signature is used to verify the information was not used along the way, and in case of tokens signed with a private key , it can also verify that the sender of the JWT is who it says it is.

### Putting it all together

The output is three Base64-URL strings separated by dots that can be easily passed in HTML and HTTP environments, while being more compact when compare to XML based standards like SAML

The following shows a JWT  that the previous header and payload encoded, 
And it is signed with a secret

``` text 
eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIiwibmFtZSI6IkpvaG4gRG9lIiwiYWRtaW4iOnRydWUsImp0aSI6IjUxYTQyNGFkLTAyZDctNDZiMS04Y2MyLTY2OGI5OTA0OWUxOCIsImlhdCI6MTU0NDQ4MDk3NSwiZXhwIjoxNTQ0NDg0NTc1fQ.8XJOFF4hFrMo_kNnjDrBQb_vVvCUwG0UgbF0Dbg332U
```

## Authentication 
* Purpose: 
Verify that the right person has access to the network 

* When it should be used: 
Implemented in the login stage 

* Function: 
Checks user credentials 

* Uses tech such as: 
Biometric scans, Iris, Passwords, One time passwords, 
Hardware tokens, software tokens and facial recognition. 

* Example 
Authentication determines the right of a user to access resources such as files, services, and data servers.

* User Experience 
Authentication technology challenges the user to provide authentication challenges (passwords, answers to security questions, Hardware tokens, approval through an out of band device).

## Authorization 

* Purpose:
Checks restrictions 

* When it should be used:
As a form of access control 

* Function 
In a organization authorization is enforced by
Access control lists, rules and policies.

* Uses tech such as: 
Active directory, Okta, ping identity, Web-sphere, 
Oracle entitlements server, user lock and infor approva

* Example:
Authorization enforces user privileges to system resources such as files, services and data servers.

* User Experience: 
Authorization software determines the rights an authenticated user has according to rules and policies.

## Local Storage 
The local storage property allows you to access a storage object from a documents origin (url) the stored data is saved across all browser sessions 

It is similar to Session storage which we will talk about later but the data in local storage has no expiration time and data from session storage gets cleared out when the page session ends that is when the page session is closed.

Example: 
``` javascript

let store = window.localStorage;
store.setItem('key','value');
let value = store.getItem('key');
store.removeItem('key');

// just to make sure everything is cleaned up 
store.clear();

```

## Session Storage 
The sessions storage property allows you to access a storage object from a document origin (url) the stored data is saved across a single browser session. 

It is similar to Local storage but unlike Local storage which is persistent across multiple browser sessions Session storage expires after a single session and disappears when the session is closed.

Example:
``` javascript 

let store = window.sessionStorage;
store.setItem('key', 'value');
let value = store.getItem('key');
store.removeItem('key');

// Clear all data 
sessionStorage.clear();
```


## Cookie 
An HTTP cookie is a small piece of data that a server sends to the users
Web browser (client). The browser may store it and send it back on the next request to the same server. Typically it is used to tell if two requests came from the same browser keeping a user logged in since it remembers stateful information that the Stateless HTTP protocol can’t.

Cookies were once used for general client-side storage. While this was legitimate when they were the only way to store data on the client, it is recommended nowadays to prefer modern storage APIs. Cookies are sent with every request, so they can worsen performance (especially for mobile data connections). Modern APIs for client storage are the Web storage API (localStorage and sessionStorage) and IndexedDB.

This is an example of how you would set a cookie

Node Server Example: 
``` javascript
response.setHeader('Set-Cookie', ['key=value', 'language=javascript']);
```

Python Flask Server Example:
``` python
 resp = make_response(render_template(...))
 resp.set_cookie('key', 'value')
```

## TCP (Transmission Control Protocol)
TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) is a standard that defines how to establish and maintain a network conversation via which application programs can exchange data. TCP works with the Internet Protocol (IP), which defines how computers send packets of data to each other. Together, TCP and IP are the basic rules defining the Internet. TCP is defined by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) in the Request for Comment (RFC) standards document number 793.

TDP is used as a standard protocol and has a reliable enough connection to become the de facto standard of most of our applications transactions.

## UDP (User Datagram Protocol)
 (User Datagram Protocol) is an alternative communications protocol to Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) used primarily for establishing low-latency and loss-tolerating connections between applications on the internet.

UDP is used heavily when streaming live content and videos where heavy data loss will have little to no effect on the content but the speed of the protocol is needed.